Update ChangeLog ORM (#1611)
odoo/documentation: content/developer/reference/backend/orm/changelog.rst

Changelog
=========

Odoo Online version 15.5
========================

> - :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search_count` takes :attr:`limit` argument in account. (`#95589 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/95589>`_)
>   It limits the number of record to count, which improve the performance if a partial result is acceptable.

Reviewer: Please mind **all the changes** in the suggestion.
```suggestion
- :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search_count` takes the :attr:`limit` argument into account with `#95589 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/95589>`_.
  It limits the number of records to count, improving performance when a partial result is acceptable.
```

Changelog
=========

Odoo Online version 15.1
========================

- With `#79622 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/79622>`_, the :meth:`reversed` works efficiently on recordset.

Odoo Online version 15.2
========================

> - Remove :attr:`_sequence` attribute of :class:`BaseModel`:  Let PostgreSQL uses the default sequence of the primary key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove :attr:`_sequence` attribute of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel`:  Let PostgreSQL uses the default sequence of the primary key
```

  `#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_
- :meth:`~odoo.models._write` of :class:`BaseModel` doesn't raise error anymore for no existing records (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)

> - Specific index types on :class:`Field`:  With `#83274 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83274>`_ and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specific index types on :class:`~odoo.fields.Field`:  With `#83274 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83274>`_ and
```

  `#83015 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83015>`_, developers can now define what type of
  indexes can be used on fields by PostgreSQL. See the :ref:`index property <reference/fields>` of
  `odoo.fields.Field`.

> - With `#82896 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82896>`_, translated :class:`Field` are not prefetch by default anymore (expected model _rec_name).

Reviewer 2: `(expected model _rec_name)` wdym with that part ? :thinking:

Author: except*. I mean that all translated field are not prefetch anymore unless it is the `_rec_name` of the model.

Reviewer 2: okay, i get it now :)

- Remove :attr:`column_format` and :attr:`deprecated` attributes of :class:`Field` (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)

Odoo Online version 15.3
========================

> - Arguments name change for :meth:`~odoo.models.search`, :meth:`~odoo.models.search_count`
>   and :meth:`~odoo.models._search`:  `args` is called `domain` now. (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Arguments name change for :meth:`~odoo.models.Model.search`, :meth:`~odoo.models.Model.search_count`
  and :meth:`~odoo.models.Model._search`:  `args` is called `domain` now. (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)
```

- :meth:`~odoo.models.filtered_domain` now conserve order of the current recordset (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

> - With `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_, :meth:`~odoo.models.browse` doesn't accept :class:`str` as ids anymore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- With `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_, :meth:`~odoo.models.Model.browse` doesn't accept :class:`str` as ids anymore.
```

> - Deprecate :meth:`~odoo.models.fields_get_keys` and :meth:`~odoo.models.get_xml_id` methods of :class:`BaseModel` (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deprecate :meth:`~odoo.models.fields_get_keys` and :meth:`~odoo.models.get_xml_id` methods of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel` (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)
```

- Remove :meth:`~odoo.models._mapped_cache` method of :class:`BaseModel` (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

> - Remove :attr:`limit` attribute of :class:`One2many` and :class:`Many2many`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remove :attr:`limit` attribute of :class:`~odoo.fields.One2many` and :class:`~odoo.fields.Many2many`
```

  and are less confusing about what is actually done in each case.
  See the section :ref:`SQL Execution <reference/orm/sql>`.

Odoo Online version 15.3
========================

> - Arguments name change for :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search`, :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search_count`
>   and :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._search`:  `args` is called `domain` now. (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer: Subject first.
```suggestion
- The argument `args` is renamed to `domain` for :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search`, :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.search_count`
  and :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._search`. `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_
```

Reviewer: Note that I moved the PR link *after* the sentence, without parenthesis. IMO it'd be simpler and clearer like that if all PR links were systematically added at the end rather than included in the sentence.

> - :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.filtered_domain` now conserve order of the current recordset (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer: Let's not add "now" every time because it'll always fit.
```suggestion
- :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.filtered_domain` conserves the order of the current recordset. `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_
```

> - With `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_, :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.browse` doesn't accept :class:`str` as ids anymore.

Reviewer: Same for "anymore".
```suggestion
- :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.browse` does not accept :class:`str` as `ids`. `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_
```

> - Deprecate :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.fields_get_keys` and :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.get_xml_id` methods of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel` (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The methods :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.fields_get_keys` and :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel.get_xml_id` on :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel` are deprecated. `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_
```

Reviewer: I'd even remove "of BaseModel".

> - Remove :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._mapped_cache` method (`#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The method :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._mapped_cache` is removed. `#83687 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83687>`_
```

> - Remove :attr:`limit` attribute of :class:`~odoo.fields.One2many` and :class:`~odoo.fields.Many2many`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the :attr:`limit` attribute of :class:`~odoo.fields.One2many` and :class:`~odoo.fields.Many2many`.
```
or
```suggestion
- The :attr:`limit` attribute of :class:`~odoo.fields.One2many` and :class:`~odoo.fields.Many2many` is removed.
```

Reviewer: The PR is missing here by the way.

Odoo Online version 15.2
========================

> - Remove :attr:`_sequence` attribute of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel`:  Let PostgreSQL uses the default sequence of the primary key
>   `#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the :attr:`_sequence` attribute of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel`. Odoo lets PostgreSQL use the default sequence of the primary key. `#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`
```
or
```suggestion
- The :attr:`_sequence` attribute of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel` is removed. Odoo lets PostgreSQL use the default sequence of the primary key. `#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_
```

> - :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._write` of :class:`~odoo.models.BaseModel` doesn't raise error anymore for no existing records 
>   (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The method :meth:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._write` does not raise an error for non-existing records. `#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_
```

- Specific index types on :class:`~odoo.fields.Field`:  With `#83274 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83274>`_ and
  `#83015 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/83015>`_, developers can now define what type of
  indexes can be used on fields by PostgreSQL. See the :ref:`index property <reference/fields>` of

>   :class:`~odoo.fields.Field`.

Reviewer: The two refs link to the same anchor. I'd rather combine them so the user doesn't click twice for nothing:
```rst
indexes can be used on fields by PostgreSQL. See the :ref:`index property of Field <reference/fields>`.
```
or, maybe clearer since `index` doesn't have an anchor:
```rst
indexes can be used on fields by PostgreSQL. See the `index` property of :class:`~odoo.fields.Field`.
```

> - With `#82896 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82896>`_, translated :class:`~odoo.fields.Field` 
>   are not prefetch by default anymore (expect the :attr:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._rec_name` field).

Reviewer: I don't believe that the link to Field adds any value here.
```suggestion
- Translated fields are not prefetched by default, excepted for the :attr:`~odoo.models.BaseModel._rec_name` field. `#82896 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82896>`_
```

> - Remove :attr:`column_format` and :attr:`deprecated` attributes of :class:`~odoo.fields.Field` (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove the :attr:`column_format` and :attr:`deprecated` attributes of :class:`~odoo.fields.Field`. (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)
```
or
```suggestion
- The :attr:`column_format` and :attr:`deprecated` attributes of :class:`~odoo.fields.Field` are removed. (`#82727 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/82727>`_)
```

Odoo Online version 15.1
========================

> - With `#79622 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/79622>`_, the :meth:`reversed` works efficiently on recordset.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it's worth mentioning in the changelog. Sure, it's cool that it works *as expected* on recordsets, but, since it was *expected*, it should rather be considered as a fix. No?

  and are less confusing about what is actually done in each case.
  See the section :ref:`SQL Execution <reference/orm/sql>`.

Odoo Online version 15.5
========================

> - :meth:`~odoo.models.search_count` takes :attr:`limit` argument in account. (`#95589 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/95589>`_)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :meth:`~odoo.models.Model.search_count` takes :attr:`limit` argument in account. (`#95589 <https://github.com/odoo/odoo/pull/95589>`_)
```

  and are less confusing about what is actually done in each case.
  See the section :ref:`SQL Execution <reference/orm/sql>`.

> Odoo Online version 15.5

Reviewer: I wouldn't reverse the order of versions. In a few years, it will be better to have the latest versions on top, and `saas 15.2` at the bottom.

Author: Yep, it seems logical to me. Updated!
